# CO_PROJECT_2022 - Assembler+Simulator
### Tech-stack:
* Python
* Matplotlib

An assembler + simulator based on a simple 16 bit instruction set architecture. This was the course project for Computer Organization course at IIITD.

### [Assembler](/SimpleAssembler.py)
The input to the assembler is a text file containing the assembly instructions. The assembler is capable of-
1. Handling instructions specified in assignment
2. Handling labels
3. Handling variables

If the code is error free, then the corresponding binary is generated to standard output (stdout). In the output, each line is a 16 bit binary number written using 0s and 1s in ASCII.

### [Simulator](/SimpleSimulator.py)
1. Reads input from stdin (the format is the same as the format of the binary file generated by the assembler)
2. Loads the binary in the system memory at the beginning, and then starts executing the code at address 0
3. The code is executed until `hlt` is reached.
4. After execution of each instruction, the simulator outputs one line containing an 8 bit number denoting the program counter
5. This is followed by 8 space separated 16 bit binary numbers denoting the values of the registers (R0, R1, ... R6 and FLAGS).

**`<PC (8 bits)><space><R0 (16 bits)><space>...<R6 (16 bits)><space><FLAGS (16 bits)>`**

The output is written to stdout. Similarly, the input must be read from stdin. After the
program halts, the memory dump of the whole memory is printed.

This project was made by [Avinash](https://github.com/Avinash-21028), [Daksh](https://github.com/Daksh-Pandey) and [Harshit](https://github.com/harshit21051).
